%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\subsection{Installing the \Condor{kbdd}}
\label{sec:kbdd}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

The condor keyboard daemon (\Condor{kbdd}) monitors X events on
machines where the operating system does not provide a way of
monitoring the idle time of the keyboard or mouse.  In particular,
this is necessary on Digital Unix machines and IRIX machines.  

\Note If you are running on Solaris, Linux, or HP/UX, you do
not need to use the keyboard daemon.

Although great measures have been taken to make this daemon as robust
as possible, the X window system was not designed to facilitate such a
need, and thus is less then optimal on machines where many users log
in and out on the console frequently.

In order to work with X authority, the system by which X authorizes
processes to connect to X servers, the condor keyboard daemon needs to
run with super user privileges.  Currently, the daemon assumes that X
uses the \Env{HOME} environment variable in order to locate a file
named \File{.Xauthority}, which contains keys necessary to connect to
an X server.  The keyboard daemon attempts to set this environment
variable to various users home directories in order to gain a
connection to the X server and monitor events.  This may fail to work
on your system, if you are using a non-standard approach.  If the
keyboard daemon is not allowed to attach to the X server, the state of
a machine may be incorrectly set to idle when a user is, in fact,
using the machine.

To see how well the keyboard daemon is working on your system, review
the log for the daemon and look for successful connections to the X
server.  If you see none, you may have a situation where the keyboard
daemon is unable to connect to your machines X server.  If this
happens, please send mail to \Email{condor-admin@cs.wisc.edu} and let
us know about your situation.

