Condor-G NMI Release April 2002

Installation
------------
This distribution is packaged using the Grid Packaging Tools [Technology?]
(GPT). To install it, you must first install the GPT. You can obtain GPT
1.0 from the following locations:

http://www-unix.globus.org/ftppub/gt2/2.0/gpt/gpt-1.0.tar.gz
ftp://ftp.globus.org/pub/gt2/2.0/gpt/gpt-1.0.tar.gz

GPT Requirements:

The Grid Packaging Tools are written in perl. An installation of Perl
5.005 or greater is required on your system. Perl can be downloaded from 
www.perl.com. 

Setting Up a Packaging Environment:

There is one environment variable (GLOBUS_LOCATION) required to use the
packaging framework. This is the location where the output of 
builds/install of Globus packages will be placed. You can switch between
multiple installations by changing the value of $GLOBUS_LOCATION.

There is an optional environment variable (GPT_LOCATION) that will affect
the packaging infrastructure. This can be used to have the packaging tools
installed in a separate location from Globus packages. You do not have to
however, define GPT_LOCATION. If you do not, the packaging tools will be
installed behind GLOBUS_LOCATION, as is most commonly done. 

In the instructions below, we show how to build if you have set both
GPT_LOCATION and GLOBUS_LOCATION. However, we do not expect that every
user will want to maintain separate directories for Globus and its
packaging toolkit. If you would like, simply replace GPT_LOCATION with
GLOBUS_LOCATION throughout the instructions below to install both the
packaging toolkit as well as the Globus toolkit in the same location, as
is most commonly done. That way, you will only have to set one environment
variable, GLOBUS_LOCATION. 

Installing GPT:

This step is required for both binary and source bundles. Untar the
distribution and enter the following commands.

    % cd gpt-1.0
    % ./build_gpt

Note: If your perl 5.005 executable is not named "perl" or is not in your
command search path, add --with-perl={perl-cmd} to the build_gpt command
to identify the perl executable to be used by the packaging tools. 

All of the perl libraries will be installed in $GPT_LOCATION/lib/perl. All
of the scripts will be installed into $GPT_LOCATION/sbin. (If 
$GPT_LOCATION is not set, $GLOBUS_LOCATION will be used for both of the
above locations.) 

Installing Condor-G Basic
-------------------------
Once the GPT is installed and the GLOBUS_LOCATION (and possibly 
GPT_LOCATION) environment variable is set, you can install the Condor-G
Basic bundle. The following commands assume you're installing the linux
version. Change names as appropriate for other platforms.

    % $GPT_LOCATION/sbin/globus-install \
        condorg_basic_bundle-linux-i686.tar.gz

Note: Remember to replace GPT_LOCATION with GLOBUS_LOCATION if you did not
create a separate packaging directory.

    % $GPT_LOCATION/sbin/gpt-postinstall

Condor-G includes daemons that must be running on the local machine for
proper operation. Run the following command as root to start the daemons.
Condor-G can be run as a non-root service if it will only be used by a
single user. In that case, run this command as that user.

    % $GLOBUS_LOCATION/sbin/SXXcondor start

To ensure that the Condor-G daemons are restarted automatically when the
machine reboots, copy the script $GLOBUS_LOCATION/sbin/SXXcondor into the
system's startup scripts directory (e.g. /etc/rc.d).

A simple way to tell if Condor-G is running [properly] is to try to access
the job queue.

    % $GLOBUS_LOCATION/bin/condor_q
    
You should see something like the following output:
    
-- Submitter: nostos.cs.wisc.edu : <128.105.165.29:34896> : nostos.cs.wisc.edu
 ID      OWNER            SUBMITTED     RUN_TIME ST PRI SIZE CMD               

0 jobs; 0 idle, 0 running, 0 held


[Do we want to say anything about certificates and/or other
bundles/packages that should be installed? At the very least, the user
will need the GSI programs (grid-proxy-*) and CA certificates to use
Condor-G).]

Overview
--------
[Describe Condor-G and Condor.]

Examples
--------
[Demonstrate running a job.]
